OMA is an international practice operating within the traditional boundaries of architecture and urbanism. AMO, a research and design studio, applies architectural thinking to domains beyond.

OMA is led by seven partners – Rem Koolhaas, Reinier de Graaf, Shohei Shigematsu, Iyad Alsaka, Chris van Duijn, Jason Long, and Managing Partner-Architect David Gianotten – and maintains offices in Rotterdam, New York, Hong Kong, and Australia.

OMA-designed buildings currently under construction are the New Museum expansion in New York City, 730 Stanyan in San Francisco, The Perigon in Miami, Museo Egizio in Turin, Dhaka Tower in Bangladesh, Palais de Justice in Lille, Harajuku Quest in Tokyo, Hangzhou Prism, CMG Times Center in Shenzhen, and Bajes Kwartier in Amsterdam.

OMA’s completed projects include Simone Veil Bridge in Bordeaux (2024), LANTERN in Detroit (2024), Mangalem 21 in Tirana (2023), Aviva Studios – Factory International in Manchester (2023), Apollolaan 171 in Amsterdam (2023), Buffalo AKG Art Museum (2023), Toranomon Hills Station Tower in Tokyo (2023), Taipei Performing Arts Center (2022), Eagle + West in Brooklyn (2022), Audrey Irmas Pavilion in Los Angeles (2022), POST Houston (2021), Tenjin Business Center in Fukuoka (2021), Norra Tornen in Stockholm (2020), Axel Springer Campus in Berlin (2020), and Potato Head Studios in Bali (2020). Earlier buildings include Fondazione Prada in Milan (2018), Pierre Lassonde Pavilion in Quebec City (2016), Faena Forum in Miami (2016), De Rotterdam (2013), CCTV Headquarters in Beijing (2012), Milstein Hall at Cornell University (2011), Casa da Música in Porto (2005), the Seattle Central Library (2004), and the Netherlands Embassy in Berlin (2003).


AMO often works in parallel with OMA’s clients to fertilize architecture with intelligence from an array of disciplines. AMO first collaborated with Prada to design the brand’s Epicenter stores in New York (2001) and Los Angeles (2002), and since 2004 has been responsible for designing the brand’s runway shows. AMO was commissioned by the European Union to study its visual communication, and designed a colored “barcode” flag, which was used during the Austrian presidency of the EU in 2004.

AMO has worked with Universal Studios, Amsterdam’s Schiphol Airport, Heineken, Ikea, Condé Nast, Harvard University, Stone Island, and the Diriyah Biennale Foundation on the first two editions of the Islamic Arts Biennale (2023, 2025). It has produced Countryside: The Future, at the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York; exhibitions at the Venice Architecture Biennale, including Public Works (2012), Cronocaos (2010), and The Gulf (2006); When Attitudes Become Form (2012), Serial and Portable Classics (2015) and Recycling Beauty (2022) at Fondazione Prada. AMO, with Harvard University, was responsible for the research and curation of the 14th Venice Architecture Biennale and its publication Elements of Architecture (2014).